Controls and compliance checklist

To complete the controls assessment checklist, refer to the information provided in the scope, goals, and risk assessment report. For more details about each control, including the type and purpose, refer to the control categories document.

Then, select “yes” or “no” to answer the question: Does Botium Toys currently have this control in place? 


Controls assessment checklist

  Yes
    No
Control




Least Privilege




Disaster recovery plans




Password policies




Separation of duties




Firewall




Intrusion detection system (IDS)




Backups




Antivirus software




Manual monitoring, maintenance, and intervention for legacy systems




Encryption




Password management system




Locks (offices, storefront, warehouse)




Closed-circuit television (CCTV) surveillance




Fire detection/prevention (fire alarm, sprinkler system, etc.)




To complete the compliance checklist, refer to the information provided in the scope, goals, and risk assessment report. For more details about each compliance regulation, review the controls, frameworks, and compliance reading.

Then, select “yes” or “no” to answer the question: Does Botium Toys currently adhere to this compliance best practice?

Compliance checklist

Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS):

Only authorized users have access to customers’ credit card information.

Answer: No. All employees currently have access to internally stored data which may include cardholder data.
Credit card information is stored, accepted, processed, and transmitted internally, in a secure environment.

Answer: No. There's no mention of a secure environment for processing and transmitting credit card information.
Implement data encryption procedures to better secure credit card transaction touchpoints and data.

Answer: No. Encryption is not currently used for customer credit card information.
Adopt secure password management policies.

Answer: No. The password policy is nominal and not in compliance with minimum complexity requirements.
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR):

E.U. customers’ data is kept private/secured.

Answer: Partially. The company has developed and enforces privacy policies but there's no mention of specific measures that ensure E.U. data is kept private or secured.
There is a plan in place to notify E.U. customers within 72 hours if their data is compromised/there is a breach.

Answer: Yes. There is a plan to notify E.U. customers within 72 hours of a breach.
Ensure data is properly classified and inventoried.

Answer: No. The IT department does not know which assets would be at risk, suggesting poor data classification and inventory.
Enforce privacy policies, procedures, and processes to properly document and maintain data.

Answer: Yes. Privacy policies, procedures, and processes have been developed and are enforced.
System and Organizations Controls (SOC type 1, SOC type 2):

User access policies are established.

Answer: No. Access controls pertaining to least privilege and separation of duties have not been implemented.
Sensitive data (PII/SPII) is confidential/private.

Answer: No. All employees may be able to access sensitive data, and there is no encryption in place.
Data integrity ensures the data is consistent, complete, accurate, and has been validated.

Answer: Partially. There's no mention of data integrity validation, although some controls are in place.
Data is available to individuals authorized to access it.

Answer: No. There's a lack of proper access control policies.
